Assignment 2 - Short Stack: Basic Two-tier Web Application using HTML/CSS/JS and Node.js  
===
## What To Bring
Nora Cleary http://a2-noracleary.glitch.me

This application allows people to coordinate their contributions to an event. If I am hosting a dinner for my friends, I could send them this link and they would add what they plan to bring to dinner. Their name is added to the guest list, and if they bring more than one item, their name only appears on the guest list once (You must differentiate names if you share a name!)
I used a CSS flexbox to style the page. 

## Technical Achievements
- **Add/Removing Data**: Using a combination of fetch requests and asynchronous functions, a user can add and delete data to the appdata array, and see these changes in real time. This was challenging as I needed to ensure the display was persistent, so even if the page is refreshed it reflects the current state of appdata. As I used Post requests and had more practice converting JSON objects, I was able to pass data between client and server easily.
- **Derived Field**: The derived field I calculated was total cost, using the price and quantity input from the user. This was challenging because of the type conversion. I was having trouble with String/Undefined values as I was trying to perform calculations with the data sent over by the client side after the user hits submit. I was able to solve this issue on the HTML, preventing the user from entering any string values in the price and quantity boxes, and accepting only positive numbers > 1 for the quantity. 
- **Event Listeners**: Every time an item is submitted, a button with class ‘remove’ is created. Each button is attached to an event listener, which will create an event that corresponds to the trigger, clicking the button. When the button is clicked, the event object created will find the closest row in the table to get the index. I then pass this index to the remove function to send it to the server and delete the item at that index from the array. The new array is sent back to the client and the application displays the new table. This was challenging because I have never worked with event listeners. I would like to get more comfortable with them in the future, as I am sure I am misunderstanding some of their functionality, but I was able to use them to accomplish my goal of individual remove buttons. 
- **Compare New Entry**: To make the guest list, I checked the new entry with all of the data in the array. The main challenge was understanding === vs. ==. I used == to compare as the array was an object and the entry was text, so == allowed to check across types. 

### Design/Evaluation Achievements
- **Color Palette**: I made a color palette (attached) using Adobe color and implemented it in my application using CSS. 
- **User Input Display**: To make the display of user inputted data consistent, I modified the text boxes. This was challenging because I was not sure if this was done in HTML or CSS, but with some research, I made some changes in both to get the desired results. In CSS, I set the text-transform to capitalize, so the first letter is capitalized on every input. I also restricted teh max and min number of characters that could be entered in a text box using HTML properties of the input tag.I used the placeholder tag to tell the user what to enter in each box, that way they can simply click in to the box and type, without needing to delete any existing text.
- **Cursor Position**: I also used the javascript focus() function to make the cursor position inside the first input box every time a user refreshes the submits and deletes. This was challenging because I did not know where to include this function, but I included it before submit and after removal and it makes the design more cohesive for the user.
